Welcome in this lecture.
I can barely contain my excitement for what we're going to achieve here.
I'm going to host again and over.
In another instance of our game I'm going to go to the join menu and it is going to scan for games which
currently doesn't show us that it's getting four games but that's okay.
And there's going to have found a game now I'm going to select that game when hit join and boom we're
in the same game without having to have typed a single IP address.
Now I'm very excited about this probably more excited than I should be but this means that we've got
the whole online subsystem working its allowed us to connect and join in a game over the online subsystem
the online Knowles subsystem which means that we're just one step away from steam and being able to
connect over the Internet.
So let's dive in and see how this is achieved.
So we've finally got to the stage where we know which Session we want to join.
We just need to go ahead and join it so we can figure out how to do that.
The joining session bit now if you look at the overarching documentation for session matching and session
and match making rather which is you've seen before but is links against this letter as well.
Now if we go to the last section you can see the joint sessions section that's quite important as well
which can be doing in this lecture basically is this arch which is to start off by calling a joint session
which triggers a joint session on whatever platform you're working with and you pass it.
The number of the player that you want to join and also the sessions search results so that's where
an index can come in to use that to index our list of search results and get the search result back
and join that search result basically.
And then when you've done that when that joining process is complete there will be a call-back very
much like we've dealt with in the past with everything else and then where the logic gets me where the
logic gets to the player into the match is performed blah blah blah.
But the important thing is that's where we need to do a client travel and what we've got the most we
need to do a client travel still the joint session doesn't do it for us but to do that we need to call
this get resolved connect string which will get us basically the address that we then need to travel
to.
Hopefully that adds a little bit of clarity to what we're going to be doing this lecture.
If it doesn't then it will certainly be clear as it goes along.
Now the first thing we're gonna need is the index in the game instance so let's go and pass the index
over to the game instance to do that we're going to go through our menu interface dot H at the moment
we've got joint pacing up and address what we actually want it to pass up is the index to the search
result.
So it's going to be you in 32 an equal index and now I can copy this and I'm going to make sure that
this is implemented in our game instance H where we currently are implementing join with the address.
We wanted to implement with the index we'll go into the C++ and make sure the implementation does the
same thing.
It and Hammond dress anymore basically.
So we dont have an address which is fine because we weren't using in the past.
But we also need to change it in our See the main menu key is where we're calling it at the moment.
We've got this join which at present is just passing in a string obviously that's not a work seeing
as we got a unit now.
So what we want to be doing here is we want to be passing in the selected index and get value.
But obviously the get value is reminding us that this could be null.
So we want to make sure this is only when the selected index is set so to do that I'm going to make
sure that we have selected indexes set and and.
The menu interface is not an old pointer which means that in this if statement I can use both the many
interface the reference and the selected index get value I can keep the log message for when there is
not a selected index just to make it super clear that why the join server is not doing anything.
We have anything selected.
Its not going to be doing anything.
Okay so we got selected in next we got our menu and face it calling up to it which means that the index
is getting all the way into the game instance dont see p p in this method here.
Thats where we need to do our next the next step of joining the session.
So how do we do the joint session.
Well Ive got the documentation for you if I can open up the documentation.
Here it is this tamping I online session joint session very much like the others.
It takes a local plan and we're going to use 0 7 name which is going to use our default session name
because we're not starting multiple not trying to join multiple simultaneously.
And then it's got the search result as a constant reference that's what we are going to pass in with
an index so this should be fairly straightforward.
Let's go in here.
We're going to be tearing down the menu first of all and we are not going to be setting this dph fault
server list for testing anymore we don't need that.
And we are going to be I'm leaving the comments in there for now because we're going to be using some
of them in on joint session complete or you're going to be using them there.
And what we're going to do here.
We're going to make sure first of all that we don't have a null interface.
So I'm going to make sure that we return earlier we don't know and tear down the menu if we have a null
session interface.
So I'm going to do an if.
On what is the court's session interface.
Not equal to null pointer.
Right.
So and if that's the case then I'm just going to return early.
What I say actually if it's equal to no point then I want to return early.
Why is this giving me a problem.
Because I'm treating it like a raw C++ pointer.
So what I actually want to say is if not is valid.
So I am going to put the knot at the front pling and is valid and then we will return early which means
that in the rest of the body we can use session interface which I'm going to say it's going to be Session
interface arrow join session with play zero and the session name just going to be Session underscored
name which we have as a constant.
And then it's a search result.
So the search result again we need to make sure that our search results are not null song and do another
here saying if not and this time it's search.
SESSIONS search I think it's what it's called section search.
Dot is valid again.
And if that's the case then return.
Because we don't want to be doing this.
Joining without any session search results then we can dereference happily seven session search arrow
and we're going get the search result or Hopefully we will.
If I type sessions search rudland search search arrow search results and then we can just get the one
using the index operators like so of the index that we want to join.
So we can go ahead and do that.
Join the session for us and we're going to get an asynchronous call back.
Very much like we've got for everything else.
And I've got the documentation for that.
Here the on join session complete tells you it takes two parameters it takes an F name which is going
to be the name of the session.
And an E on join session complete results which is an e-mail in which you can go and have a look at
what the types of that in-home might be.
Now I'm going to implement this because it is a little bit of a tricky thing.
I'm going to implement the version in the head file.
So it's going to be void on what did what do we say it's called on join session complete hunger.
Copy that.
So on joint session complete and then we are going to take an F name which I'm going to call the session
name and then what's this funky type.
This funky type It's E on joint session complete result code on kahlon type.
So we are going to put that in there too.
And we are going to go over and it's going to call this.
The result is what I'm going to call it.
The result of the join operation is essentially what it is.
Now this ain't going to work just like so we're going to go into the C++ file and actually pull up one
of that includes going to have to pull up the online session in space.
H includes going to take that out of the C plus plus go up to their head and save it in the header.
And now we compile warn you obviously that on join session complete is not implemented in the C++.
But it won't complain about the include.
That's how we're going to be doing our on joint session comp..
Now you are going to be doing the rest.
Making sure that on joint session complete then it gets a hold of an address and joins.
So you've got the documentation here on get resolves connects thring see if you can figure how that
works and see if you can figure out how to actually join the session.
So here's your challenge definition.
You are going to join a session so handle the join call back as I've said.
Get the Connect string.
See if you can work out how to use that API.
Do a client travel to the Connect string that you can just use as an extra and as the address that's
the whole point and then test it sporn up to game instances see if he can find each other without having
to type in any IP addresses this time.
Pause the video and have a go.
Exciting challenge.
Okay welcome back.
So I'm going to go jump in and get started so it's telling me that I need to implement this thang so
I'm going to copy it and go over into my cbp and I'm going to put after my join so that it's chronological.
With these call-backs it's often helpful to have them organized crime or logically like this.
At least I find that helpful for my mental model and for knowing.
Often you need them together you need to know that I called this and then this thing got called.
It's often very helpful way.
So I'm going to namespace this function.
I am going to remove my semicolon because that leads the really weird errors.
So we got a result we got the session name.
Now this commented out code I'm going to take that and pop it in to this new method because that's basically
what I want to do is all this client travel stuff.
I'm going to uncomment it in fact.
And I am going to need to define an address the address actually we are going to get from this connect
string.
But let's deal with that in just a sec.
We want to first make sure that on Section complete is going to get called by registering it for a call-back.
So I'm going to go up to the top where we're doing all our call-backs for the session.
The session interface so I'm going to do a session interface arrow on.
Join session complete delegates and you object this.
And Ben B.
Address of operator.
And then.
We are going to need to paste in the fully qualified.
On joins ocean complete.
And once that's done I can put some semicolons on the end of the line.
That should all be hunky dory and the.
Signature should match because we basically copied it from the definition.
So that is handling on join session complete.
Now let's get that platform straight.
So I've got the documentation here.
Get resolved.
Connect strings.
I'm going to copy that.
I'm going to go over into on joint session complete.
Now I'm going to make sure first of all that we do indeed have a session song and do an if.
Not session interface is valid.
Long things to type aren't they in return.
We don't want to be dealing with this method if we don't have a certain interface because we're gonna
need it and this session interface we're going to need to produce this string.
That's string address.
And if you look at the documentation for our get resolved connect string you'll see that it takes an
out parameter.
So we're going to do is this session interface arrow.
Get resolve connect string.
Now what does it take.
It takes a it's not a session search result I can take an F name which we've got so our session name
has passed in to our on session complete and then it takes the Connect info as a reference so that's
an out parameter.
If you hadn't seen that come in now gone out parameter always a little bit dodgy when they're there
but they are sometimes.
So we've got seven resolve complete Now obviously the fact that it's gone out parameter tells you that
this might fail because it's actually returning boolean.
So we might want to say if not Session connects string and complete then we want to do some logging
basically So I'm going to do a eui Log.
Log temp.
And then I'm going to put warning level and I'm going to put the text to be something along the lines
of let's say could not get to connects ring.
Fabulous.
So could not get a connect string.
And we want to make sure that we are returning if we could not get the Connect string because we're
going to need that set when we actually use the address when we print the debug address.
And when we connect to the client.
So that should do the trick.
Let's go ahead and build and see if it works.
Has are the build works.
Let's go over to the unreal editor.
Well actually not the unreal editor we're going to go to puzzle platforms and right click on the you
project and launch a couple of games so that we can try and get them to connect to each other.
So my two games have launched up Im going to host in one of them in the other one.
Im going to go to my Join menu.
Now Im going to wait for the list of games to show up here.
Now go got a list of games and it's got a number out of something we know that's false at the moment.
If I click on this item and go and hit join then boom I have gone and joined into the same session.
How cool is this.
And here's my other character.
He too is in this session as we can tell because he's just standing on the block right now.
So that's awesome.
We've managed to join a session without having to type a single IP address this is one step closer to
being really really easy to use.
Quick both of these games are really easy to use.
Anybody could use this now.
There's no need to.
Well anyone could use it over land that is.
And that's something I'd like you to check if you've got multiple computers.
Try it out on a LAN because you will be able to find the other computers on a LAN using this method.
And if you've got amachi then try it out on amachi as well and see whether you can connect to players
across the Internet using this join session method.
That's fantastic stuff.
I'm really excited that we've got this far and we can basically be looking at how we can turn the no
interface into steam which means connecting over the internet without any amachi or VPN.
How cool is that.
Let's press forward.
I'll see you in the next lecture lecture.